#summary Discussion Forum for the various AutoSMS clients

= Introduction =

Put up this wiki page to serve as a possible discussion forum for the various AutoSMS clients available. Can post comments, questions, etc. here. Though for bugs and enhancement requests, post to the issues section of this site.

This page also serves as an FAQ.

= FAQ =

*Why is there a list of phone service providers/carriers? And why do I need to select it for the recipient's carrier to send him/her a message?*

Likely because the AutoSMS service needs to pass your message to the SMS gateway of the recipient carrier for your recipient to receive it. Similar to sending an email to someone, you need to specify the domain or hosting provider of the recipient like user@gmail.com or user@yahoo.com. We've been spoiled by not having to do that for SMS messages.

Think of it this way, basically, you pay (as part of your phone service plan) to send SMS to recipient from your phone. The plan provider receives your SMS to recipient's phone number and does a lookup via some directory/algorithm, etc. to find out which phone carrier the recipient is on based on the phone number and then passes it to the SMS gateway of the recipient's carrier. Unfortunately, I believe that lookup process isn't really available for free, hence free services like AutoSMS probably resort to alternate options. For example, you can find a carrier's email-to-SMS gateway so that you can send SMS to recipient from your email account, see [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_SMS_gateways wikipedia pages]. You just need to know the gateway (meaning you need to know the carrier) So of course there's a catch when things are free (i.e. just a little more work to send a message).